# app_stock_scraper_1

Introduction to App
This is a stock news scraper app with audio notification function. It is inteded to be used by experienced stock traders to capitalize on immediate news releases that are unclear or difficult for professional trading bots to understand. It utilized Node JS to run requests in the back end and outputs the results onto the browser. Okay That introduction may be a bit confusing and you're still not sure what this application does. but that's okay, Let me explain in further detail

Press releases or news leaks of a company can often cause a big movement in the stock price. In most cases this information is easily digested by professional bots and they make trades immediately, leaving retail traders too late to benefit from the news. However, often times when the news is ambiguous or unprecedented, the bot cannot understand the news and instead defers to a person to interpret the data, discuss it, arrive at a conclusion, get approval and make the trade. Professional companies have red tape and procedures, it will take anywhere from several minutes to even 20+ minutes before they can take action. This period is when retail traders have an advantage as they can analyze the data and make the trade immediately without needing to go through any procedures or approval. 


This app is designed to assist retail stock investors by filtering out irrelevant information and only give the most important data as soon as news gets released. This way users can very quickly analyze the news and make a trade within a few short minutes. As stated before, in most cases professional bots will get the trade first, therefore it is necessary to first check if the stock has already moved before making a trade. In other words, this app capitalizes on the scenario where the professional trading bots fail and requires human action, which takes several minutes of corporate red tape and will almost always be slower than the retail trader sitting at home. 

Admittedly this way of trading is very niche and opportunity wont happen often. But when it does occur, it becomes the best possible trade in the industry: an asymmetric risk trade, i.e. low risk, high reward. The news usually tells you which direction to move the stock, this significantly lowers the risk of being wrong. News also typically moves the stock price in a big way, thus creating the asymmetry of being low risk and high reward. 

The last benefit is that the price action happens very quickly and thus you can take profits and exit your position without exposing yourself to a long timeframe which locks up your capital and subjects your investment to market volatility over time. Thus, the trade becomes: low risk, high reward, short length of time. The only risk factor is down to the user and whether or not they can interpret the news correctly. The reason why bots fail is because of the ambiguous nature of the news. Therefore the user needs to be  an experienced trader to accurately judge the news and how it will affect the stock price. 

Usage
The app is supposed to run in the background while you go about your day. When it finds an article on your stocks, it will display it on the browser and play an alarm to notify you. However the sound notification will only work when the user interacts with the page first, so a click anywhere on the browser page will turn on the sound. At the bottom of the page in the green section, in the last textbox, you can enter the names of the stocks you wish to track. Enter them one by one and ensure spelling is correct. If you dont have specific stocks to track and you want to track all the stocks in the pre-assembled list then you can check the box that says "Include Base List". If you would like to delete any stocks from the search, go to the first text box and enter the name of the stock. After the searches appear, you can click the button "Remove Matches" to remove all of the matched articles. Or if you can click "Remove Stock Name" to exclude all of the stocks shown in the current search from any future searches.

Technical Details:
The app uses two scraping methods together, node-fetch and puppeteer. Node-fetch is for speed and puppeteer is for websites with stronger anti-scrape measures, but puppeteer is much slower and resource intensive. Other packages include express and cheerio. Axios was originally used but removed because it is easily detected and blocked by websites. Currently testing unirest as a third scraper method because it evades detection from more websites than node-fetch. Specifically unirest can perform google searches, which node-fetch cannot. 